oh hold it
run that back
sector g6 there zoom in
whoa there
freeze that
what is it
enhance
look at his wrist
this uh
nobody walks with their arms
pronated like that
it's ergonomics 101 jim
my god if we can get an ergonomic
logitech vertical mouse to him he might
just have a fighting chance before he
before what
well before he develops a repetitive
strain injury and
gets fired
[Music]
logitech's mx series of flagship mice
including the full-featured mx master 2s
travel friendly mx anywhere 2s and mx
ergo for trackball enthusiasts now has a
new addition to the mischief that
the mischief really
a group of mice is called a mischief
well you learn something every day okay
anyway it's the mx vertical logitech's
first
vertical mouse now the idea behind
vertical mice which have been around for
an eye on 20 years now is to maximize
comfort and avoid carpal tunnel syndrome
and other repetitive strain injuries
that can be caused by lying your hand
flat for long periods of time this is
known as pronation and actually causes
your two forearm bones the radius and
the ulna to scissor which can pinch the
tissue inside the forearm increasing
pressure in the carpal tunnel it can
also inflame tendons
so
yes that's right folks going prone
sometimes hurts more than it helps now
the mx verticals design mitigates this
by putting your hand in more of a
natural
handshake position of 57 degrees which
is higher than the mx ergos optional
tilt but still less than the 90 degrees
which in theory would give you enhanced
unscissoring but then would also
introduce new problems because instead
of driving mouse clicks down towards the
desk they'd be going sideways where
there's nothing to push against so you
just push your mouse away i mean you'd
probably end up with an injury from
squeezing the mouse constantly to try to
hold it still instead of being able to
relax which is what the vertical's angle
and wide thumb pad do allow for okay so
your arm bones are aligned and all that
but what is this thing like to use
honestly
quite a bit weirder than i thought
and there's definitely a bit of a
learning curve before you can point with
the degree of accuracy that you're
probably used to because you have to
learn to move your arm on a totally
different axis now on a normal mouse
most of us execute big movements by
pivoting from the elbow or from the
shoulder and then find movements by
moving the wrist sideways a little bit
like this but while this does offer a
lot of precision it's actually an
unhealthy movement with another fancy
name
ulnar deviation
but with the vertical you actually do
your fine movements like this
which becomes second nature after a week
or two except for an unexpected problem
that james who i immediately unloaded
this thing to when it arrived ran into
which was a frustrating increase in what
we're calling
fake clicks where you go to click on
something and nothing happens
causing you to have to click again
so it took me a couple of goes to figure
out why it wasn't registering sometimes
and it turns out that whether it's some
combination of the vertical position or
maybe the difference in fine motor
control between moving your hand like
this versus like this
but
basically what's going on is that
it's really easy to inadvertently click
before you've actually stopped moving
the mouse and if you look closely you
can actually see that the mouse is
basically registering a tiny micro drag
instead of a discrete click
now it's possible that the main factor
in all this is just that we have so much
practice using horizontal like regular
mice and this could be a complete
non-issue over time
uh or it's possible that you don't
experience this issue at all and it's
just a james thing but all we can do is
tell you our experiences and this is
what i experienced so
there it is one thing we expect to be
agreeable to everyone though is the mx
verticals looks
despite logitech's obvious focus on
ergonomics the mouse itself still
manages to look frankly like a work of
art it looks like a seashell or a or a
sailboat or like a sick jump
but even seemingly design focused
decisions here often have practical
elements to them so the soft touch
rubber top for example is accented with
these vertical ribs that play with the
light more than the graphite color
otherwise would but also give it a
pleasing grippy texture in the hand so
you can't accidentally slip
unfortunately this mouse doesn't exist
in a vacuum and comparison is the thief
of joy so when we bring other mice into
the picture the mx vertical loses some
of its luster
even though the mx vertical is
lightweight and advertised as having the
elevated performance of the mx series
and even though it has forward and back
buttons a dpi selector that goes up to
4000 dpi and left and right buttons that
are rated to 10 million clicks it still
feels like it got a little shafted in
terms of features compared to its
siblings so despite demanding the same
99 us dollar price the vertical has the
fewest programmable buttons it lacks a
horizontal scroll wheel and gesture
control and dark field tracking for use
on highly reflective surfaces and
while i understand that the angle of the
mouse might have restricted logitech
from putting one of their awesome
hyper-scrolling wheels on here
i feel like at least a tilt wheel
probably wasn't too much to ask
honestly other than ergonomics the only
thing about this mouse that makes it
stand out against the others in the
lineup is the fact that it uses usb
type-c
so you get the reversibility and the
improvements to durability not to
mention that it will be handy to be able
to use the same cable to charge your
laptop your android phone and your mouse
but
james and i actually had a pretty good
debate about this when we were going
through this
you could make the argument that some of
those missing features that we mentioned
before would be more important to many
users than the type of usb port in spite
of all of that criticism though i can't
think of any reason to hate this mouse
even if it was clearly built for folks
with medium to large hands
the forward button is a bit of a top
shelf in the kitchen kind of experience
for a smaller person like me it is
expensive but it's a high quality
right-handed mouse with modern logitech
benefits like dual connectivity via
radio and bluetooth flow across multiple
machines and this neat graphical dpi
selector which unfortunately didn't work
until i installed logitech's options
software so so if you're looking for a
vertical mouse to help you prevent or
recover from a repetitive strain injury
and you don't mind spending three to
five times as much as the competitive
offerings in exchange for the logitech
pedigree
then we can easily recommend it just
don't try to game with it because it
gets pretty warm actually
all that surface area so thanks for
watching guys if you disliked this video
you can hit that button but if you liked
it hit like get subscribed or maybe
consider checking out where to buy the
stuff we featured at the link in the
video description also down there is our
merch store which has cool shirts like
not like this one but uh there are cool
shirts in there and our community forum
which you should definitely join